federalist number seven the same subject
continued
concerning dangers from dissensions
between the states for the independent
journal
hamilton to the people of the state of
new york
it is sometimes asked with an air of
seeming triumph what inducements could
the states have
if disunited to make war upon each other
it would be a full answer to this
question to say precisely the same
inducements which have
at different times deluged in blood all
the nations in the world
but unfortunately for us the question
admits of a more particular answer
there are causes of differences within
our immediate contemplation of the
tendency of which even under the
restraints of a federal constitution
we have had sufficient experience to
enable us to form a government of what
might be expected if those restraints
were removed
territorial disputes have at all times
been found one of the most fertile
sources of hostility among nations
perhaps the greatest proportion of wars
that have desolated the earth have
sprung from this origin
this cause would exist among us in full
force we have a vast tract of unsettled
territory within the boundaries of the
united states
there still are discordant in undecided
claims between several of them and the
dissolution of the union would lay a
foundation for similar claims between
them all
it is well known that they have
heretofore had serious and animated
discussion concerning the rights to the
lands which were ungranted at the time
of the revolution and which usually went
under the name of crown lands
the states within limits of whose
colonial governments they were comprised
have claimed them as their property
the others have contended that the
rights of the crown in this article
devolved upon the union
especially as to all that part of the
western territory which
either by actual possession or through
the submission of the indian proprietors
was subjected to the jurisdiction of the
king of great britain
till it was relinquished in the treaty
of peace this it has been said
was at all events an acquisition to the
confederacy by compact with a foreign
power
it has been the prudent policy of
congress to appease this controversy
by prevailing on the states to make
sessions to the united states for the
benefit of the whole
this has been so far accomplished as
under a constitution of the union to
afford a decided prospect of an amicable
termination of the dispute
a dismemberment of the confederacy
however would revive this dispute and
would create
others on the same subject at present a
large part of the vacant western
territory is
by session at least if not by any
anterior right the common property of
the union
if that were at an end the states which
made the session on a principle of
federal compromise would be apt when the
motive of the grant had ceased to
reclaim the lands as a reversion
the other states would no doubt insist
on a proportion by right of
representation
their argument would be that a grant
once made could not be revoked
and that the justice of participating in
territory acquired or secured by the
joint efforts of the confederacy
remained undiminished
if contrary to probability it should be
admitted by all the states
that each had a right to a share of this
common stock there would still be a
difficulty to be surmounted
as to a proper rule of apportionment
different principles would be set up by
different states for this purpose
and as they would affect the opposite
interests of the parties they might not
easily be susceptible of a pacific
adjustment
in the wide field of western territory
therefore we perceive an ample theater
for hostile pretensions
without any umpire or common judge to
interpose between the contending parties
to reason from the past to the future we
shall have good ground to apprehend that
the sword would sometimes be appealed to
as the arbiter of their differences
the circumstances of the dispute between
connecticut and pennsylvania respecting
the land at wyoming
admonish us not to be sanguine and
expecting an easy accommodation of such
differences
the articles of confederation obliged
the parties to submit the matter to the
decision of a federal
court the submission was made and the
court decided in favor of pennsylvania
but connecticut gave strong indications
of dissatisfaction with that
determination
nor did she appear to be entirely
resigned to it till by negotiation and
management
something like an equivalent was found
for the loss she supposed herself to
have sustained
nothing here said is intended to convey
the slightest censure on the conduct of
that state
she no doubt sincerely believed herself
to have been injured by the decision
and states like individuals acquiesce
with great reluctance and determinations
to their disadvantage
those who had an opportunity of seeing
the inside of the transactions which
attended the progress of the controversy
between this state and the district of
vermont can vouch the opposition we
experienced
as well from states not interested as
from those which were interested in the
claim
and can attest the danger to which the
peace of the confederacy might have been
exposed had this state attempted to
assert its right
by force two motives preponderated in
that opposition
one a jealousy entertained of our future
power and the other
the interest of certain individuals of
influence in the neighboring states who
had obtained grains of land under the
actual government of that district
even the states which brought forward
claims in contradiction to ours
seemed more solicitous to dismember the
state than to establish their own
pretensions
these were new hampshire massachusetts
and connecticut
new jersey and rhode island upon all
occasions discovered a warm zeal for the
independence of vermont
and maryland till alarmed by the
appearance of a connection between
canada and that state entered deeply
into the same views
these being small states saw with an
unfriendly eye the perspective of our
growing greatness
in a review of these transactions we may
trace some of the causes which would be
likely to embroil the states with each
other if it should be their unpropitious
destiny to become disunited
the competitions of commerce would be
another fruitful source of contention
the states less favorably circumstanced
would be desirous of escaping from the
disadvantages of local situation
and of sharing in the advantages of
their more fortunate neighbors
each state or separate confederacy would
pursue a system of commercial policy
peculiar to
itself this would occasion distinctions
preferences and exclusions which would
beget discontent
the habits of intercourse on the basis
of equal privileges to which we have
been accustomed since the earliest
settlement of the country
would give a keener edge to those causes
of discontent than they would naturally
have independent of this circumstance
we should be ready to denominate
injuries those things which were in
reality the justifiable acts of
independent sovereignties consulting a
distinct interest
the spirit of enterprise which
characterizes the commercial part of
america
has left no occasion of displaying
itself unimproved
it is not at all probable that this
unbridled spirit would pay much respect
to those regulations of trade by which
particular states might endeavor to
secure exclusive benefits to their
own citizens the infractions of these
regulations on one side the efforts to
prevent and repel them on the other
would naturally lead to outrages
and these to reprisals and wars the
opportunities which some states would
have of rendering others tributary to
them by commercial regulations would be
impatiently submitted to by the
tributary states
the relative situation of new york
connecticut and new jersey would afford
an example of this kind
new york from the necessities of revenue
must lay duties on her importations
a great part of these duties must be
paid by the inhabitants of the two other
states in the capacity of consumers of
what we import
new york would be neither willing nor
able to forego this advantage
her citizens would not consent that a
duty paid by them should be remitted in
favor of the citizens of her neighbors
nor would it be practicable if they were
not this impediment in the way to
distinguish the customers in our own
markets
would connecticut and new jersey long
submit to be taxed by new york for her
exclusive benefit
should we be long permitted to remain in
the quiet and undisturbed enjoyment of a
metropolis from the possession of which
we derived an advantage so odious to our
neighbors and in their opinions so
oppressive
should we be able to preserve it against
the incumbent weight of connecticut on
the one side and the cooperating
pressure of new jersey on the other
these are questions that temerity alone
will answer in the affirmative
the public debt of the union would be a
further cause of collision between the
separate states or confederacies
the apportionment in the first instance
and the progressive extinguishment
afterward would be a like productive of
ill humor and animosity
how would it be possible to agree upon a
rule of apportionment satisfactory to
all
there is scarcely any that can be
proposed which is entirely free from
real objections
these as usual would be exaggerated by
the adverse interests of the parties
there are even dissimilar views among
the states as to the general principle
of discharging the public debt
some of them either less impressed with
the importance of national credit
or because their citizens have little if
any immediate interest in the question
feel an indifference if not a repugnance
to the payment of the domestic debt at
any rate
these would be inclined to magnify the
difficulties of a distribution
others of them a numerous body of whose
citizens are creditors to the public
beyond proportion of the state in the
total amount of the national debt would
be strenuous for some equitable and
effective provision
the procrastinations of the former would
excite the resentments of the latter
the settlement of a rule would in the
meantime be postponed by real
differences of opinion and affected
delays
the citizens of the states interested
would clamor foreign powers would urge
for the satisfaction of their just
demands
and the peace of the states would be
hazarded to the double contingency of
external invasion
and internal contention suppose the
difficulties of agreeing upon a rule
surmounted
and the apportionment made still there
is great room to suppose that the rule
agreed upon would
upon experiment be found to bear harder
upon some states than upon others those
which were sufferers by it would
naturally seek for mitigation of the
burden
the others would as naturally be
disinclined to a revision
which was likely to end in an increase
of their own encumbrances
the refusal be too plausible a pretext
to the complaining states to withhold
their contributions
not to be embraced with avidity and the
non-compliance of these states with
their engagements would be a ground of
bitter discussion and altercation
if even the rule adopted should in
practice justify the equality of its
principle
still delinquencies in payment on the
part of some of the states would result
from a diversity of other causes the
real deficiency of resources
the mismanagement of their finances
accidental disorders in the management
of government
and in addition to the rest the
reluctance with which men commonly part
with money for purposes that have
outlived the exigencies which produce
them and interfere with the supply of
immediate wants
delinquencies from whatever causes would
be productive of complaints
recriminations and quarrels
there is perhaps nothing more likely to
disturb the tranquility of nations
than their being bound to mutual
contributions for any common object that
does not yield an equal and coincident
benefit
for it is an observation as true as it
is trite that there is nothing men
differ so readily about
as the payment of money laws in
violation of private contracts
as they amount to aggressions on the
rights of those states whose citizens
are injured by them may be considered as
another probable source of hostility
we are not authorized to expect that a
more liberal or more equitable spirit
would preside over the legislations of
the individual states hereafter if
unrestrained by any additional checks
than we have heretofore seen in too many
instances disgracing their several codes
we have observed the disposition to
retaliation excited in connecticut in
consequence of the enormities
perpetrated by the legislature of rhode
island
and we reasonably infer that in similar
cases under other circumstances a war
not of parchment but of the sword would
chastise such atrocious breaches of
moral obligation and social justice
the probability of incompatible
alliances between the different states
or confederacies and different foreign
nations
and the effects of this situation upon
the peace of the whole have been
sufficiently unfolded in some preceding
papers from the view they have exhibited
of this part of the subject
this conclusion is to be drawn that
america if not connected at all
or only by the feeble tie of a simple
league offensive and defensive
would by the operation of such jarring
alliances be gradually entangled in all
the pernicious labyrinths of european
politics and wars
and by the destructive contentions of
the parts into which she was divided
would be likely to become a prey to the
artifices and machinations of powers
equally the enemies of them all
dewey dear tempera must be the motto of
every nation that either hates or fears
us
publius